Create Executive Vote 02.md (#2400)
makerdao/community: governance-exercises/Executive Vote 02.md

summary: Activate Enhanced Dai Savings Rate; increase Spark Protocol D3M Debt Ceiling; set Harbor Trade Credit Debt Ceiling to zero; AVC Members Rewards for Q2 2023; DAO Resolution for Monetalis Clydesdale JAT1 Surplus Return; Spark Protocol Proxy Spell Execution; distribute Launch Project funding; update New Silver RWA Agreement parameter.  
date: 2023-08-02T00:00:00.000Z
address: "$spell_address"

---

# [Executive Proposal] Enhanced Dai Savings Rate Activation, Spark Protocol Debt Ceiling Increase, Set Harbor Trade Debt Ceiling to Zero, AVC Members Rewards for Q2, DAO Resolution for Monetalis Clydesdale and Other Actions - August 2, 2023

The Governance Facilitators, Dewiz, Sidestream and Phoenix Labs have placed an executive proposal into the voting system. MKR Holders should vote for this proposal if they support the following actions within the Maker Protocol.

If you are new to voting in the Maker Protocol, please see the [voting guide](https://manual.makerdao.com/governance/voting-in-makerdao/on-chain-governance) to learn how voting works.

---

## Executive Summary

> If this executive proposal passes, the following actions will occur within the Maker Protocol:

Reviewer: Remember you can link out to documentation in this section as well.

- The Enhanced Dai Savings Rate (EDSR) will be activated, increasing the DSR to 8%.
- The Spark Protocol Dai Direct Deposit Module (D3M) Maximum Debt Ceiling will be increased to 200 million DAI. 
- The Harbor Trade Credit vault's Debt Ceiling will be set to zero DAI, and the vault will be put into soft liquidation. 
- AVC Members' Participation Rewards for Q2 will be distributed. 
- A DAO Resolution pertaining to the Monetalis Clydesdale James Asset Trust 1 (JAT1) structure will be approved. 
- A Spark Protocol Proxy Spell will be triggered to implement changes to the DAI interest rate strategy, WETH market parameters and DAI market parameters.

> - 2 million DAI of Launch Project funds will be distributed to a wallet controlled by the Accessibility Scope Facilitator for growth and marketing expenses.

Reviewer: I feel like 'Launch Project' is a good place to link out to the relevant Atlas section.

> - The New Silver vault's RWA Agreement parameter will be updated. 

Reviewer: Could give slightly more detail here. Why is it being updated?

**Voting for this executive proposal will place your MKR in support of the actions outlined above.**

Unless otherwise noted, the actions listed above are subject to the [GSM Pause Delay](https://manual.makerdao.com/parameter-index/core/param-gsm-pause-delay). This means that if this executive proposal passes, the actions listed above will only become active in the Maker Protocol after the GSM Pause Delay has expired. The GSM Pause Delay is currently set to **48 hours**.

If this executive proposal does not pass within 30 days, then it will expire and can no longer have any effect on the Maker Protocol.

---

## Proposal Details

> For voters' convenience, each proposed item is prefaced with links showing its provenance. "Authorization" links to the official document(s) authorizing the proposed item's inclusion in the Executive Vote; this can be a governance poll, the Atlas and/or a Scope Alignment Artifact. "Reasoning" links to a MakerDAO Forum post providing the rationale and additional context for each item. Where needed, "Authorizing Parties" may also be listed; these may include the responsible Scope Facilitator and/or Scope Advisory Council members.

Reviewer: Don't hate it, will see how I feel after going through the rest.

Reviewer: Could switch reasoning to context. I'm aware you copied terminology from the executive sheet, could change there too, potentially.

### Enhanced Dai Savings Rate (EDSR) Activation

> *Authorization*: [Governance Poll](https://vote.makerdao.com/polling/QmcTRPLx)\

Reviewer: I feel like it might be worth putting slightly more info here. Maybe:
```suggestion
*Authorization*: [Successful Governance Poll - 2023-07-24](https://vote.makerdao.com/polling/QmcTRPLx)\
```

Successful to make it more idiot-proof, maybe unneeded. Feels like the date is useful to distinguish between recent polls, and long-ago ones.

> *Reasoning*: Rune's [Forum post](https://forum.makerdao.com/t/request-for-gov12-1-2-edit-to-the-stability-scope-to-quickly-implement-enhanced-dsr/21405)

Reviewer: Would maybe not include author here. Just have 'EDSR Forum Post' or something instead.

> The [Stability Scope](https://mips.makerdao.com/mips/details/MIP104#0-the-stability-scope) was recently amended to add a temporary [Enhanced Dai Savings Rate (EDSR)](https://mips.makerdao.com/mips/details/MIP104#3-2-2-enhanced-dai-savings-rate-edsr-) system aimed at boosting Dai demand. The EDSR is determined based on the [Dai Savings Rate (DSR)](https://manual.makerdao.com/parameter-index/core/param-dai-savings-rate) and DSR utilization rate. If this executive proposal passes, the following action will occur:

Reviewer: Arguably the Scope link is your authorization, gets a little more complicated where its authorized by a ratified document that can be amended via polls.

-  The Dai Savings Rate (DSR) will be increased by 4.81% from 3.19% to **8%**. 

> 8% is the EDSR's upper limit, as prescribed in the [Stability Scope](https://mips.makerdao.com/mips/details/MIP104#3-2-2-1-edsr-upper-limit). Over time, as DSR utilization increases, the effective DSR will be adjusted downward.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8% is the EDSR's upper limit, as prescribed in the [Stability Scope](https://mips.makerdao.com/mips/details/MIP104#3-2-2-1-edsr-upper-limit). Per the EDSR clauses, as DSR utilization increases, the effective DSR will be adjusted downward.
```
Not strictly needed, but generally you want to enforce the link between scopes + behaviour in readers minds. It's not that 'over time as it increases it will go down' it's that 'it will go down from what the scope says, currently the scope says x'

Basically, if the scope changes tomorrow, then this is no longer true, and arguably misleading those who read it and take away false assumptions over how the rate would evolve.

### Spark Protocol Dai Direct Deposit Module (D3M) Maximum Debt Ceiling Increase

*Authorization*: [Governance Poll](https://vote.makerdao.com/polling/QmSLj3HS)\
*Reasoning*: Phoenix Labs' [Forum post](https://forum.makerdao.com/t/phoenix-labs-proposed-changes-for-spark/21422)

> The proposed action concerns increasing the Spark D3M [Maximum Debt Ceiling](https://manual.makerdao.com/module-index/module-dciam#maximum-debt-ceiling-line) parameter to prepare for the implementation of the [EDSR](https://mips.makerdao.com/mips/details/MIP104#3-2-2-enhanced-dai-savings-rate-edsr-) and allow new users to onboard onto the lending market. The [Target Available Debt](https://manual.makerdao.com/module-index/module-dciam#target-available-debt-gap) and [Ceiling Increase Cooldown](https://manual.makerdao.com/module-index/module-dciam#ceiling-increase-cooldown-ttl) parameters will remain the same at 20 million DAI and 8 hours, respectively. If this executive proposal passes, the following action will occur:

Reviewer: Arguably you don't need to include information about parameters remaining unchanged, that should be the default assumption.

Reviewer: You maybe don't need to use bullet points where there is only one parameter change as well. Reads better as just: 

If this executive proposal passes, the Spark Protocol D3M (DIRECT-SPARK-DAI) Maximum Debt Ceiling will be increased from 20 million DAI to **200 million DAI**.

- The Spark Protocol D3M (DIRECT-SPARK-DAI) Maximum Debt Ceiling will be increased from 20 million DAI to **200 million DAI**.

### Harbor Trade Credit (RWA004-A) Vault - Updates to Prevent Additional Borrowing

*Authorization*: [Governance Poll](https://vote.makerdao.com/polling/QmR8cYb1)\
*Reasoning*: Strategic Finance Core Unit's [Forum post](http://forum.makerdao.com/t/request-to-poll-decrease-debt-ceiling-for-harbor-trade-credit-htc-drop-to-0/21373)\
*Authorizing parties*:  [Dewiz and Strategic Finance Core Unit](http://forum.makerdao.com/t/request-to-poll-decrease-debt-ceiling-for-harbor-trade-credit-htc-drop-to-0/21373/9) 

In April 2023, the loans backing the Harbor Trade Credit vault defaulted. Approximately 1.5 million DAI is outstanding from the vault. If this executive proposal passes, the following actions will occur to prevent additional borrowing from the vault:

- The Harbor Trade Credit vault Debt Ceiling will be decreased from 7 million DAI to **zero DAI**.
- `tell` will be called on the RWA Liquidation Oracle to place the vault into soft-liquidation state.

### Aligned Voter Committee (AVC) Member Participation Rewards for Q2 2023

> *Authorization*: [Atlas](https://mips.makerdao.com/mips/details/MIP101#2-5-10-avc-member-participation-rewards); [Governance Scope Artifact](https://mips.makerdao.com/mips/details/MIP113#0-the-governance-scope)\

Reviewer: Formatting breaks down a little when there are multiple authorizing links imo.

> *Reasoning & authorizing party*: Governance Facilitator's [Forum post](http://forum.makerdao.com/t/avc-member-participation-rewards-q2-2023/21459)

Reviewer: Should separate these, imo. 
```suggestion
*Reasoning*: [Q2 AVC Participation Rewards Forum post](http://forum.makerdao.com/t/avc-member-participation-rewards-q2-2023/21459)
*Authorizing Party*: Governance Facilitator
```

| LDF              | [0xC322E8Ec33e9b0a34c7cD185C616087D9842ad50](https://etherscan.io/address/0xC322E8Ec33e9b0a34c7cD185C616087D9842ad50) | 11.92        |
| opensky          | [0x8e67ee3bbeb1743dc63093af493f67c3c23c6f04](https://etherscan.io/address/0x8e67ee3bbeb1743dc63093af493f67c3c23c6f04) | 14.90        |
| David Phelps     | [0xd56e3E325133EFEd6B1687C88571b8a91e517ab0](https://etherscan.io/address/0xd56e3E325133EFEd6B1687C88571b8a91e517ab0) | 8.94         |
| seedlatam.eth    | [0x0087a081a9b430fd8f688c6ac5dd24421bfb060d](https://etherscan.io/address/0x0087a081a9b430fd8f688c6ac5dd24421bfb060d) | 11.92        |
| StableLab        | [0xbDE65cf2352ed1Dde959f290E973d0fC5cEDFD08](https://etherscan.io/address/0xbDE65cf2352ed1Dde959f290E973d0fC5cEDFD08) | 14.9         |
| flipsidegov      | [0x300901243d6CB2E74c10f8aB4cc89a39cC222a29](https://etherscan.io/address/0x300901243d6CB2E74c10f8aB4cc89a39cC222a29) | 14.9         |

### DAO Resolution for Monetalis Clydesdale James Asset Trust 1 (JAT1) Arrangement Surplus Return 

*Reasoning*: Monetalis' [Forum post](http://forum.makerdao.com/t/clydesdale-quarterly-return-of-surplus-fund/21291)\

> *Authorizing party*: [Stability Scope Facilitator](http://forum.makerdao.com/t/clydesdale-quarterly-return-of-surplus-fund/21291/8)

Reviewer: Should make clear whether this is the authorization, or the authorizing party, imo. The party is the Stability Scope Facilitator, but you're linking to the actual authorization.

Reviewer: Could split them, and for example also link to where in the atlas it says that SES are the Stability Scope Facilitator. Or link to the webpage of the ecosystem actor that is currently serving in that role (if one exists, etc)

> As of Q2 2023, the Monetalis Clydesdale JAT1 Arrangement has a surplus of approximately $6.8M to return to the MakerDAO Surplus Buffer. Monetalis seeks approval via a DAO Resolution to execute this latest Surplus Return Process. If this executive proposal passes, the following actions will occur:

Reviewer: No idea if this number is correct, but I know there has been debate on what the correct number is. Imo I would just say something like: 'has a significant surplus' or something. The exact amount isn't critically important for governance to know here, and given there is debate on what it should be, probably shouldn't implicitly take the position that 6.8M is the correct number.

> - The DAO Resolution will be approved, with IPFS hash [QmaGTVioBsCPfNoz9rbW7LU6YuzfgqHDZd92Hny5ACfL3p](https://gateway.pinata.cloud/ipfs/QmaGTVioBsCPfNoz9rbW7LU6YuzfgqHDZd92Hny5ACfL3p).

Reviewer: Reasoning is that that hash is a property of the resolution content. That resolution can't be approved with a different hash because the hash is unique for the content*.

\* (technically this isn't true, it depends on which hashing function you use, but eh, no need to go that deep)

> - The JAT1 Trustees will be instructed to sell a portion of ETF holdings and return the proceeds to the Surplus Buffer per Monetalis' Forum post, linked above.

Reviewer: Maybe: 
```suggestion
- The resolution instructs JAT1 Trustees to sell a portion of ETF holdings and return the proceeds to the Surplus Buffer per Monetalis' Forum post, linked above.
```

Prefer active voice where possible, etc.

- The DAI market interest rate will track the ETH-C stability fee instead of the Enhanced DSR rate. 

Per the [Stability Scope](https://mips.makerdao.com/mips/details/MIP104#14-3-3), the ETH-C stability fee equals the underlying DSR. Therefore, this proposed Interest Rate Strategy accords with the [Stability Scope](https://mips.makerdao.com/mips/details/MIP104#3-2-2-enhanced-dai-savings-rate-edsr-)'s specification that parameters and mechanisms that are normally dependent on the DSR are not to be affected by the EDSR, but only by the underlying DSR. 

#### DAI Market Parameter Changes

- DAI market `Loan To Value` will be set to 0.01%.
- DAI market `Liquidation Threshold` will be set to 0.01%.

Since the sDAI market is frozen, the only way to short is through the DAI market. These proposed changes will effectively remove DAI as a collateral type, ensuring there won’t be a situation where the market is at 100% utilization and liquidations on the short positions need to be done.

#### WETH Market Parameter Changes

- WETH market `reserveFactor` will be set to 5%. This will reduce the protocol fee taken on the ETH market to give suppliers a larger APY.

> - WETH market `variableRateSlope1` will be set to 3%. This will ensure a healthier utilization near the kink to improve supplier return and incentivize more deposits.

Reviewer: Don't make promises you can't keep. That is the intended outcome of the change, the actual outcome may be different.

### Launch Project Funding Distribution

*Authorization*: [Accessibility Scope Artifact](https://mips.makerdao.com/mips/details/MIP108#9-1-launch-project-budget)\
*Reasoning & authorizing party*: Accessibility Scope Facilitator's [Forum post](http://forum.makerdao.com/t/utilization-of-the-launch-project-under-the-accessibility-scope/21468)

[Launch Project](http://forum.makerdao.com/t/the-launch-project-and-scope-artifact-update-proposal/21048?) funding was previously approved as part of the ratification of the Accessibility Scope. The Accessibility Scope Facilitator now seeks to establish a wallet to hold 2 million DAI of Launch Project funds. This will allow the Facilitator to more efficiently access funds to carry out work related to the MakerDAO rebranding, Easy Governance Frontend and other growth/marketing expenses. If this executive proposal passes, the following action will occur:

> - **2 million DAI** of Launch Project funds will be transferred to wallet [0x3C5142F28567E6a0F172fd0BaaF1f2847f49D02F](https://etherscan.io/address/0x3C5142F28567E6a0F172fd0BaaF1f2847f49D02F), controlled by the Accessibility Scope Facilitator.

Reviewer: Worth noting it's a multisig wallet?

### New Silver (RWA002-A) Vault - Update RWA Agreement Parameter

*Authorization*: [Governance Poll](https://vote.makerdao.com/polling/QmaU1eaD#vote-breakdown)\
*Reasoning*: Strategic Finance Core Unit's [Forum post](http://forum.makerdao.com/t/rwa-002-new-silver-restructuring-risk-and-legal-assessment/21417)\
*Additional authorizing party*: [Dewiz](http://forum.makerdao.com/t/rwa-002-new-silver-restructuring-risk-and-legal-assessment/21417/15)

> The restructuring and parameter changes of [New Silver’s existing vault](https://forum.makerdao.com/t/ns-drop-collateral-onboarding-risk-evaluation/5418) have necessitated updates to the underlying legal documentation. In turn, this requires updating the [RWA Agreement](https://manual.makerdao.com/parameter-index/vault-risk/param-rwa-agreement) parameter that stores an IPFS hash of the legal documentation. If this executive proposal passes, the following action will occur:

Reviewer: I think the other parameter changes haven't taken place yet, and that updating the doc is required before updating the parameters (for some reason that escapes me, but hopefully makes sense to someone in the chain of responsibility here...)

> - The RWA Agreement parameter will be updated to QmTrrwZpnSZ41rbrpx267R7vfDFktseQe2W5NJ5xB7kkn1. View the IPFS hash [here](https://gateway.pinata.cloud/ipfs/QmTrrwZpnSZ41rbrpx267R7vfDFktseQe2W5NJ5xB7kkn1). 

Reviewer: Imo you can just link this sort of thing inline:
```suggestion
- The RWA Agreement parameter will be updated to [QmTrrwZpnSZ41rbrpx267R7vfDFktseQe2W5NJ5xB7kkn1](https://gateway.pinata.cloud/ipfs/QmTrrwZpnSZ41rbrpx267R7vfDFktseQe2W5NJ5xB7kkn1).
```
